README.md, before:

# par-tree

The aim of the project is to implement the method from [The key to a data parallel compiler](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2935323.2935331) in Haskell and research it. The expected result of the research is a library that enables one to implement a parallel compiler without bothering of parallelizing computations on AST by themselves.

# Dependencies

See the [Dependancies](https://github.com/AccelerateHS/accelerate-llvm/blob/b177f9234bca5e1b342c3a4e5c35be82f48ab744/README.md#dependencies) section.

> LLVM 9 must be installed

## Pop OS

When using Pop OS [cuda can be installed](https://support.system76.com/articles/cuda/) with the following command:

```bash
sudo apt install system76-cuda-latest
# Or, even better, first install apt-fast which will speed up your download and use it
apt-fast -y install system76-cuda-latest
```

The installation might not set the links to the needed files, so the build of this project will fail. This can be fixed by:

1. Add `/use/lib/cuda/bin` to your `PATH` in your `.bashrc`/`.zshrc`/etc.:

```bash
export PATH=$PATH:/usr/lib/cuda/bin
```

2. Put symbolic link to libnvvm to the location where it can be found by a linker:

```bash
sudo ln -s /usr/lib/cuda/nvvm/lib64/libnvvm.so.4 /usr/lib/
sudo ldconfig
```

# Building the project and running it

The proejct can be built to run either using a CPU or GPU backend.

## Using CPU backend

1. Build the project without `gpu` flag:

    ```bash
    stack build --flag par-tree:-gpu
    # Or just
    stack build  # since gpu flag is set to false by default
    ```

2. Run the built executable:

    ```bash
    stack exec par-tree-exe
    ```

## Using GPU backend

1. Build the project with `gpu` flag:

    ```bash
    stack build --flag par-tree:gpu
    ```

2. Run the built executable:

    ```bash
    stack exec par-tree-exe
    ```

Commit message:

Update BNFC and regenerate files

README.md, after:

# par-tree

The aim of the project is to implement the method from [The key to a data parallel compiler](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2935323.2935331) in Haskell and research it. The expected result of the research is a library that enables one to implement a parallel compiler without bothering of parallelizing computations on AST by themselves.

# Dependencies

See the [Dependancies](https://github.com/AccelerateHS/accelerate-llvm/blob/b177f9234bca5e1b342c3a4e5c35be82f48ab744/README.md#dependencies) section.

> LLVM 9 must be installed

## Pop OS

When using Pop OS [cuda can be installed](https://support.system76.com/articles/cuda/) with the following command:

```bash
sudo apt install system76-cuda-latest
# Or, even better, first install apt-fast which will speed up your download and use it
apt-fast -y install system76-cuda-latest
```

The installation might not set the links to the needed files, so the build of this project will fail. This can be fixed by:

1. Add `/use/lib/cuda/bin` to your `PATH` in your `.bashrc`/`.zshrc`/etc.:

```bash
export PATH=$PATH:/usr/lib/cuda/bin
```

2. Put symbolic link to libnvvm to the location where it can be found by a linker:

```bash
sudo ln -s /usr/lib/cuda/nvvm/lib64/libnvvm.so.4 /usr/lib/
sudo ldconfig
```

# Development

## Building the project and running it

The proejct can be built to run either using a CPU or GPU backend.

### Using CPU backend

1. Build the project without `gpu` flag:

    ```bash
    stack build --flag par-tree:-gpu
    # Or just
    stack build  # since gpu flag is set to false by default
    ```

2. Run the built executable:

    ```bash
    stack exec par-tree-exe
    ```

### Using GPU backend

1. Build the project with `gpu` flag:

    ```bash
    stack build --flag par-tree:gpu
    ```

2. Run the built executable:

    ```bash
    stack exec par-tree-exe
    ```

## BNFC

To describe the used programming language [BNFC](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/BNFC) package is utilezed.

It needs to be installed once, e.g. with stack. Also the auxiliary tools must be installed:

```bash
stack install BNFC alex happy
```

### Compile BNFC

```bash
cd ./src
bnfc -d -p Haskcalc -m Haskcalc/Expr.cf
```

Then parser and tests can be build with `make`.

Run `make clean` to remove the built files.
